Pricing in the big one is once you get comfortable knowing how long certain projects take you can make
much more.
Quoting fixed prices for those freelancers who complete projects quicker than most you can double or
triple what you can make.
If you're just quoting an hourly rate.
But the opposite holds true.
And if projects take longer or you did not quote a fixed price that was high enough you start to lose
money by not charging hourly.
So let's make sure we know how to price fix projects so we don't run into the trouble of losing money.
First of all researches again at the start of it all.
Ask others in your industry and freelance groups how much they charge per project or different project
types.
Also there's different Web sites you can visit to find average fix prices for certain types of projects
always come into this with a bit of research as guessing how much to charge on projects will be almost
impossible without knowing when others have charged for similar work.
There are several factors that help us find the perfect fixed price quote.
The first thing we want to do is figure out our experience level.
If you've been doing this for more than a decade and even have management experience working with other
creative designers or freelancers you'll be able to have more pricing power to the upside.
So how do I know where I fall with my skill level.
Just like I signed my clients with a different tier level I signed my own personal skill and experience
level into three different categories.
The first category level would be a total beginner.
This is my first official project with the client.
I'm going to need to price much lower level than others simply because this is my first project.
I'm going to want to shoot at the lower level of the scale for example of this was doing a social media
graphic.
Just one simple graphic.
Instead of charging 100 hundred dollars for that graphic I would charge maybe somewhere around 30 to
40 dollars and that's first level beginner situation what the client is getting is a great deal.
But what you're getting is a real world project and social proof they can use to gain future clients
that value you worth.
You can also ask for referrals that proves client experience.
Think of this as part of your payment for your services and this first level payment is more than just
monetary opportunity to prove yourself for your first two projects is invaluable.
Your next level is going to be the intermediate level.
You definitely have some paid client work under your belt and you may have done some work on a wide
variety of projects.
You may even have 2 to 5 years of experience you've worked with other freelancers to do larger projects
at times.
So you have some team experience.
This is where you start to have a little more power with pricing.
You have proven work experience so this intermediate level pricing I usually price close to industry
average for that particular work project.
I no longer under charge or under price I price what is a reasonable industry average now I'm at the
point where I could start to explore higher pricing and maybe edge that hourly price or fixed project
price higher and higher with each new client contract.
And once again in the next lesson we're going to talk about client tier assignments and how that will
factor into your pricing as well.
The next level is the advanced level.
So you probably have five plus years of experience where you have a proven track record of success working
with larger clients regional clients and perhaps you've even had some agency work.
Maybe you've worked alongside national level projects that have gotten a large amount of exposure.
The difference between an intermediate skill level freelancer and an advanced freelancer is the amount
of exposure your client or personal work has gone.
So instead of getting a thousand impressions with your project or for your client your work has been
seen shown digested by tens of thousands if not millions of people news impressions likes.
They're all the same.
You should also be paid on the level of your prior exposures have been projects that are used by prior
clients who have gone on to be shown to millions of people.
You deserve a much higher payout than someone who's only had a project exposed to a couple hundred people.
We'll talk more about exposure of your projects and quoting later in the class so understanding where
you fall gives you a chance to know what your pricing power is.
The lower your skill level the lower your pricing power.
There are some ways you can overcome this by having an amazing portfolio even if you're at the beginning
stages and you don't have your first client or maybe you've only done a couple of paid client projects.
This is where your portfolio can help you charge just a little bit more out of your level.
That means working on projects just for your personal portfolio to fill that pool portfolio with a rich
engaging projects to make up the lack of paid client work so let's do a few examples.
It's great to talk about pricing theory but to be able to talk about pricing in nominal terms is so
important.
So here's pricing power at work in terms of your skill and experience level.
Let's say I'm at the beginner level I've had two paid clients before but I've only been at this for
six months.
I'm a graphic designer and I've done a couple of logo and branding projects.
The amount of my exposure of work has been minimal but has mostly been at the local population in my
town.
A new client approaches me about a project they've seen my work locally and they've enjoyed the style
and want to approach me about doing a branding project for their company.
After talking to the client and figuring out it'll probably take me around 15 to 20 hours to do the
local design maybe 3 revision rounds I would say I need to make about thirty five dollars an hour let's
say I've previously made 25 to 30 dollars an hour but I'm just getting started and that's OK.
So I find out that 20 hours times thirty five dollars an hour equals seven hundred dollars so that would
be beginner level pricing but if I was at the next level maybe have two to three years of experience
and I'd been doing this for a little longer maybe my work has gotten a little bit more exposure maybe
on the state level or regional level.
I'll probably want to price closer to 60 dollars an hour so that same project would be sixty dollars
an hour.
Times 20 dollars which would equal twelve hundred dollars.
You could see the difference in pricing power between your experience and skill level and how that affects
your pricing.
Now for the advanced level I probably charge somewhere between 80 dollars now or if I was charging hourly
but if I'm going to stay consistent and stay on my hourly rate pricing 80 dollars an hour times 20 hours
is sixteen hundred dollars so you can see the difference between the skill level and how a beginner
level freelancer and their industry peers make less than half of someone who would be considered an
expert does.
This is the value of experience and you need to know that when pricing your projects that this is valuable
to clients and essential to how you price.
This example used hourly pricing but the same method applies for fixed rate pricing.
You can see how your skill level can affect your pricing power even for fixed rate prices and with fixed
rate prices.
Sometimes that upside can be more dramatic because fixed rate pricing can be more flexible.
This is why someone can charge 10000 dollars for a logo design while others struggle to get clients
at 200 dollars.
Of course there's more than just your skill level involved.
There's also the client size and client budget.
We need to figure out we're going to talk about assigning clients their own levels to be able to have
more information to help us find the perfect pricing.
So stay tuned.